# 原子、任务与重试

`atom`是TaskFlow中最小的单位，是其他类型的基类。



```
class taskflow.atom.Atom(name=None, 
	provides=None, 
	requires=None, 
	auto_extract=True, 
	rebind=None, 
	inject=None, 
	ignore_list=None, 
	revert_rebind=None, 
	revert_requires=None)
```

1. name：Meaningful name for this atom, should be something that is distinguishable and understandable for notification, debugging, storing and any other similar purposes.
2. provides：A set, string or list of items that this will be providing (or could provide) to others, used to correlate and associate the thing/s this atom produces, if it produces anything at all.
3. inject：An *immutable* input_name => value dictionary which specifies any initial inputs that should be automatically injected into the atoms scope before the atom execution commences
4. rebind： A dict of key/value pairs used to define argument name conversions for inputs to this atom’s `execute`method.
5. revert_rebind：The same as `rebind` but for the `revert`method. If unpassed, `rebind` will be used instead.
6. requires：A set or list of required inputs for this atom’s`execute` method.
7. revert_requires： A set or list of required inputs for this atom’s `revert` method. If unpassed, `requires` will be used.



```
abstract execute(*args, **kwargs)
```

Activate a given atom which will perform some operation and return.

This method can be used to perform an action on a given set of input requirements (passed in via `*args` and `**kwargs`) to accomplish some type of operation.



## Task

A [`task`](https://docs.openstack.org/taskflow/latest/user/atoms.html#taskflow.task.Task) (derived from an atom) is a unit of work that can have an execute & rollback sequence associated with it (they are *nearly* analogous to functions).

Your task objects should all derive from [`Task`](https://docs.openstack.org/taskflow/latest/user/atoms.html#taskflow.task.Task) which defines what a task must provide in terms of properties and methods.



## Retry

A [`retry`](https://docs.openstack.org/taskflow/latest/user/atoms.html#taskflow.retry.Retry) (derived from an atom) is a special unit of work that handles errors, controls flow execution and can (for example) retry other atoms with other parameters if needed. When an associated atom fails, these retry units are *consulted* to determine what the resolution *strategy* should be. The goal is that with this consultation the retry atom will suggest a *strategy* for getting around the failure.

Currently derivatives of the [`retry`](https://docs.openstack.org/taskflow/latest/user/atoms.html#taskflow.retry.Retry) base class must provide a [`on_failure()`](https://docs.openstack.org/taskflow/latest/user/atoms.html#taskflow.retry.Retry.on_failure)method to determine how a failure should be handled. The current enumeration(s) that can be returned from the [`on_failure()`](https://docs.openstack.org/taskflow/latest/user/atoms.html#taskflow.retry.Retry.on_failure) method are defined in an enumeration class described here:

```
class taskflow.retry.Decision(value)
```

1. `REVERT` *= 'REVERT'*：Reverts only the surrounding/associated subflow.
2. `REVERT_ALL` *= 'REVERT_ALL'*：Reverts the entire flow, regardless of parent strategy.
3. `RETRY` *= 'RETRY'*：Retries the surrounding/associated subflow again.